GNU miscfiles NEWS   8 July 1996

Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
See the end for copying conditions.

Please send GNU miscfiles bug reports to bug-gnu-utils@prep.ai.mit.edu.


Version 1.2

New files in this release:

unicode
	The Unicode character set.

currency
	A table showing the currencies of the world

countries
	A table giving the official abbreviations and names of the
	countries of the world, with their capital cities.

I have dropped city codes from inter.phone, for several reasons.  It
is very difficult to obtain accurate up-to-date information for most
of the countries of the world.  The ITU keeps a good list of country
dialing codes, but within countries, things change too much for me to
be able to keep up, and rather than contain unfixable and wrong
information, I decided to only distribute what I could be confident of.
Many many new countries are now represented in the list, however.

The na.phone file has been carefully synced against current reality.

The 5-digit zipcodes file has been dropped, since zipcodes do not map
to towns and cities any more; many 5-digit zipcodes now cross sound
boundaries.

A spelling error in web2 is fixed; and the airports and propernames
lists have been extended slightly.

The jargon file has been refreshed; the upstream author now regards
html as the primary form of it, so the info file has been dropped in
favor of html.  rfc-index.txt, fyi-index.txt, std-index.txt,
mailinglists, tasks.texi, and cities.dat have all been refreshed from
their upstream sources.

François Pinard has added more to his excellent abbreviation lists.


Version 1.1

The na.phone file has been entirely rebuilt.  inter.phone contains new
codes for the United Kingdom, several changes to reflect the changing
political world, and more codes for some countries (Sweden, Norway). 

Many new files have been added:

latin1
  like `ascii'; describing the ISO Latin-1 character set

languages
  two-letter codes for languages, from ISO 639.

mailinglists
  Description of all the public Project GNU related mailing lists.

GNU-manifesto
  The GNU Manifesto

tasks.{texi,info}
  The GNU task list.

jarg400
  The Jargon file (same as the _Hacker's_Dictionary_)

abbrevs.talk, abbrevs.gen:
  Some common abbreviations used in electronic communication

rfc-index.txt, fyi-index.txt, std-index.txt
  Indexes of internet standardization documents.

cities.dat
  geographic coordinates of many major cities

postal.codes
  postal codes for US and Mexican states and Canadian provinces

us-constitution
  The Constitution of the United States of America

us-declaration
  The Declaration of Independence of the Thirteen Colonies



----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.0

Initial release, comprising 
airport, ascii, birthtoken, connectives, inter.phone, na.phone, operator, 
propernames, web2, web2a, and zipcodes.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright information:

Copyright (C) 1992, 1993 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

   Permission is granted to anyone to make or distribute verbatim copies
   of this document as received, in any medium, provided that the
   copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved,
   thus giving the recipient permission to redistribute in turn.

   Permission is granted to distribute modified versions
   of this document, or of portions of it,
   under the above conditions, provided also that they
   carry prominent notices stating who last changed them.


Local variables:
version-control: never
mode: indented-text
end:
