This is version 1.2 of the GNU miscfiles distribution.

This distribution includes files not of crucial importance for system
administration or operation, but which have come to be common on
various systems over the years.

If you have any suggestions about files to add to this distribution,
or corrections to the files here, please send them to
bug-gnu-utils@prep.ai.mit.edu.

The files in version 1.2 are:

connectives
  English `connectives'; prepositions, pronouns, and the like.

web2
  Webster's Second International English wordlist

web2a
  Webster's Second Internations appendix english wordlist

propernames
  Some common proper names

airport
  List of three letter codes for some major airports

ascii
  A map of the ascii character set.

birthtoken
  Traditional stone and flower for each month.

inter.phone
  International country telephone codes

na.phone
  North American (+1) telephone area codes

operator
  Precedence table for operators in the C language

abbrevs.talk, abbrevs.gen:
  Some common abbreviations used in electronic communication

cities.dat
  geographic coordinates of many major cities

postal.codes
  postal codes for US and Mexican states and Canadian provinces

GNU-manifesto
  The GNU Manifesto

mailinglists
  Description of all the public Project GNU related mailing lists.

languages
  two-letter codes for languages, from ISO 639.

latin1
  like `ascii'; describing the ISO Latin-1 character set

currency
  currency abbreviations and names

countries
  country abbreviations and names and capital cities

unicode
  The official Unicode character set table

jargon.html
  The Jargon file (same as the _Hacker's_Dictionary_)

us-constitution
  The Constitution of the United States of America

us-declaration
  The Declaration of Independence of the Thirteen Colonies

rfc-index.txt, fyi-index.txt, std-index.txt, bcp-index.txt
  Indexes of internet standardization documents.

tasks.{texi,info}
  The GNU task list.


See the file INSTALL for installation instructions.

Please send all bug reports by electronic mail to:
    bug-gnu-utils@gnu.org

These files are all freely redistributable.

